"A computer is like air conditioning - it becomes useless when you open Windows"#"Intelligence is the ability to avoid doing work, yet getting the work done."#"Software is like sex: It's better when it's free."#"All operating systems sucks, but Linux just sucks less"#"Those that can, do. Those that can't, complain."#"I like offending people, because I think people who get offended should be offended."#"Talk is cheap. Show me the code."#"Bad programmers worry about the code. Good programmers worry about data structures and their relationships."#"Most of the good programmers do programming not because they expect to get paid or get adulation by the public, but because it is fun to program."#"If Microsoft ever does applications for Linux it means I've won."#"Avoiding complexity reduces bugs."#"Backups are for wimps. Real men upload their data to an FTP site and have everyone else mirror it."#"Only religious fanatics and totalitarian states equate morality with legality."#"Theory and practice sometimes clash. And when that happens, theory loses. Every single time."#"Microsoft isn't evil, they just make really crappy operating systems."#"Nobody actually creates perfect code the first time around, except me. But there's only one of me."#"People who are doing things for fun do things the right way by themselves."#"When you say 'I wrote a program that crashed Windows,' people just stare at you blankly and say 'Hey, I got those with the system, for free.'"#"If you think your users are idiots, only idiots will use it."#"C++ is a horrible language. It's made more horrible by the fact that a lot of substandard programmers use it, to the point where it's much much easier to generate total and utter crap with it."#"Don't ever make the mistake [of thinking] that you can design something better than what you get from ruthless massively parallel trial-and-error with a feedback cycle. That's giving your intelligence much too much credit."#"Some people have told me they don't think a fat penguin really embodies the grace of Linux, which just tells me they have never seen an angry penguin charging at them in excess of 100mph. They'd be a lot more careful about what they say if they had."#"I think one thing I do pretty well is not taking myself too seriously."#"I started Linux as a desktop operating system. And it's the only area where Linux hasn't completely taken over. That just annoys the hell out of me."#"The Linux philosophy is "laugh in the face of danger". Oops. Wrong one. "Do it yourself". That's it."#"I love making friends.... it's people I can't stand."#"No problem is too big it can't be run away from"#"Every time I see some piece of medical research saying that caffeine is good for you, I high-five myself. Because I'm going to live forever."#"My name is Linus, and I am your God."#"I will, in fact, claim that the difference between a bad programmer and a good one is whether he considers his code or his data structures more important. Bad programmers worry about the code. Good programmers worry about data structures and their relationships."#"An infinite number of monkeys typing into GNU emacs would never make a good program."#"The memory management on the PowerPC can be used to frighten small children."#"Modern PCs are horrible. ACPI is a complete design disaster in every way. But we're kind of stuck with it. If any Intel people are listening to this and you had anything to do with ACPI, shoot yourself now, before you reproduce."#"In real open source, you have the right to control your own destiny."#"We all know Linux is great...it does infinite loops in 5 seconds."#"Don't hurry your code. Make sure it works well and is well designed. Don't worry about timing."#"In short: just say NO TO DRUGS, and maybe you won't end up like the Hurd people."#"This 'users are idiots, and are confused by functionality' mentality of Gnome is a disease. If you think your users are idiots, only idiots will use it."#"To be a nemesis, you have to actively try to destroy something, don't you? Really, I'm not out to destroy Microsoft. That will just be a completely unintentional side effect."#"I have one very basic rule when it comes to "good ideas". A good idea is not an idea that solves a problem cleanly. A good idea is an idea that solves several things at the same time. The mark of good coding is not that the program does what you want, it's that it also does something that you didn't start out wanting."#"It's what I call "mental masturbation", when you engage is some pointless intellectual exercise that has no possible meaning."#"The fact is, there aren't just two sides to any issue, there's almost always a range of responses, and "it depends" is almost always the right answer in any big question."#"If you start doing things because you hate others and want to screw them over, the end result is bad."#"If you think penguins are fat and waddle, you have never been attacked by one running at you in excess of 100 miles per hour."#"I want my office to be quiet. The loudest thing in the room - by far - should be the occasional purring of the cat."#"In many cases the user interface to a program is the most important part for a commercial company: whether the programs works correctly or not seems to be secondary."#"UNIX has a philosophy, it has 25 years of history behind it, and most importantly, it has a clean core. It strives for something - some kind of beauty. And that's really what struck me as a programmer. Operating systems that normal home users are used to, such as DOS and Windows, didn't have any way of life. Nobody tried to design Windows - it just grew in random directions without any kind of thought behind it. [...] I don't think Microsoft is evil in itself; I just think that they make really crappy operating systems."#"Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow."#"The fact that ACPI was designed by a group of monkeys high on LSD, and is some of the worst designs in the industry obviously makes running it at any point pretty damn ugly."#"Excusing bad programming is a shooting offence, no matter what the circumstances."#"Once you realize that documentation should be laughed at, peed upon, put on fire, and just ridiculed in general, then, and only then, have you reached the level where you can safely read it and try to use it to actually implement a driver."#"I'm basically a very lazy person who likes to get credit for things other people actually do."#"In my opinion MS is a lot better at making money than it is at making good operating systems."#"In open source, we feel strongly that to really do something well, you have to get a lot of people involved."#"I'm not a big believer in revolutions. What people call revolutions in technology were more of a shift in perception - from big machines to PC's (the technology just evolved, fairly slowly at that), and from PC's to the internet. The next "revolution" is going to be the same thing - not about the technology itself being revolutionary, but a shift in how you look at it and how you use it."#"I may make jokes about Microsoft at times, but at the same time, I think the Microsoft hatred is a disease."#"People will realize that software is not a product; you use it to build a product."#"Any program is only as good as it is useful."#"By staying neutral, I end up being somebody that everybody can trust. Even if they don't always agree with my decisions, they know I'm not working against them."#"Let's put it this way: if you need to ask a lawyer whether what you do is "right" or not, you are morally corrupt. Let's not go there. We don't base our morality on law."#"Programmers are in the enviable position of not only getting to do what they want to, but because the end result is so important they get paid to do it. There are other professions like that, but not that many."#"I'm generally a very pragmatic person: that which works, works."#"So I've decided to be a very rich and famous person who doesn't really care about money, and who is very humble but who still makes a lot of money and is very famous, but is very humble and rich and famous."#"I do get my pizzas paid for by Linux indirectly."#"Artists usually don't make all that much money, and they often keep their artistic hobby despite the money rather than due to it."#"On the internet nobody can hear you being subtle."#"Language is one of the fundamental principles of human understanding. It is the way we interact with each other and how we grasp the world we live in. Intelligence is the ability to avoid doing work, yet getting the work done."#"I am not out to destroy Microsoft, that would be a completely unintended side effect."#"There are lots of Linux users who don't care how the kernel works but only want to use it is not only a tribute to how good Linux is, but it also brings up issues that I would never have thought of otherwise."#"I used to be interested in Windows NT, but the more I see it, the more it looks like traditional Windows with a stabler kernel. I don't find anything technically interesting there."#"You know, the mark of intelligence is realizing when you're making the same mistake over and over and over again, and not hitting your head in the wall five hundred times before you understand that it's not a clever thing to do."#"I get the biggest enjoyment from the random and unexpected places. Linux on cellphones or refrigerators, just because it's so not what I envisioned it. Or on supercomputers."#"C++ is in that inconvenient spot where it doesn't help make things simple enough to be truly usable for prototyping or simple GUI programming, and yet isn't the lean system programming language that C is that actively encourages you to use simple and direct constructs."#"The way to do good basic design isn't actually to be really smart about it, but to try to have a few basic concepts."#"To be honest, the fact that people trust you gives you a lot of power over people. Having another person's trust is more powerful than all other management techniques put together."#"I never try to make any far-reaching predictions, so much can happen that it simply only makes you look stupid a few years later."#"Real quality means making sure that people are proud of the code they write, that they're involved and taking it personally."#"I think Leopard is a much better system [than Windows Vista] but OS X in some ways is actually worse than Windows to program for. Their file system is complete and utter crap, which is scary."#"Today, I will offer free web hosting and developpement helps for projects under Sourceforge"#"Security people are often the black-and-white kind of people that I can't stand. I think the OpenBSD crowd is a bunch of masturbating monkeys, in that they make such a big deal about concentrating on security to the point where they pretty much admit that nothing else matters to them."#"When somebody who is different shows himself to be different in a good way, that's how development happens."#"And what's the Internet without the rick-roll?"#"In science, the whole system builds on people looking at other people's results and building on top of them. In witchcraft, somebody had a small secret and guarded it - but never allowed others to really understand it and build on it. Traditional software is like witchcraft. In history, witchcraft just died out. The same will happen in software. When problems get serious enough, you can't have one person or one company guarding their secrets. You have to have everybody share in the knowledge."#"One of the reasons I like open source is that it allows people to work on the parts they are good at, and I don't mean just on a technical level; some people are into the whole selling and support, and that's just not me."#"Developers have the attention spans of slightly moronic woodland creatures."#"I'm a huge believer in evolution (not in the sense that "it happened" - anybody who doesn't believe that is either uninformed or crazy, but in the sense "the processes of evolution are really fundamental, and should probably be at least thought about in pretty much any context")."#"I'm perfectly happy complaining, because it's cathartic, and I'm perfectly happy arguing with people on the Internet because arguing is my favourite pastime - not programming."#"Bill Gates really seems to be much more of a business man than a technologist, while I prefer to think of Linux in technical terms rather than as a means to money."#"Non-technical questions sometimes don't have an answer at all."#"See, you not only have to be a good coder to create a system like Linux, you have to be a sneaky bastard too."#"The complaints I've had is that GitHub as a development platform - making commits, pull requests, keeping track of issues etc - doesn't work very well at all. It's not even close, not for something like the kernel. It's much too limited."#"I am pragmatic. That which works, works, and theory can go screw itself. However, my pragmatism also extends to maintainability, which is why I also want it done well."#"The economics of the security world are all horribly, horribly nasty and are largely based on fear, intimidation and blackmail."#"That's what makes Linux so good: you put in something, and that effort multiplies. It's a positive feedback cycle."#"I have an ego the size of a small planet."#"I don't actually follow other operating systems much. I don't compete - I just worry about making Linux better than itself, not others."#"Personally, I'm not interested in making device drivers look like user-level. They aren't, they shouldn't be, and microkernels are just stupid."#"An individual developer like me cares about writing the new code and making it as interesting and efficient as possible. But very few people want to do the testing."#"Portability is for people who cannot write new programs."#"I'm simply too content doing what I want to do to really have a very negative attitude towards MicroSoft. They make bad products - so what? I don't need to care, because I happily don't have to use them, and writing my own alternative has been a very gratifying experience in many ways."#"Whoever came up with "hold the shift key for eight seconds to turn on 'your keyboard is buggered' mode" should be shot."#"When you hear voices in your head that tell you to shoot the pope, do you do what they say? Same thing goes for customers and managers. They are the crazy voices in your head, and you need to set them right, not just blindly do what they ask for."#"I'd much rather have 15 people arguing about something than 15 people splitting into two camps, each side convinced it's right and not talking to the other."#"The NIH syndrome (Not Invented Here) is a disease."#"If you like using CVS, you should be in some kind of mental institution or somewhere else."#"Right now some people are just running around in circles and claiming that moving things to the kernel automatically makes it more stable. I'm telling you that the kernel is stable not because it's a kernel, but because I refuse to listen to arguments like this."#"Hmmm, completely a-religious - atheist. I find that people seem to think religion brings morals and appreciation of nature. I actually think it detracts from both."#"If you want to travel around the world and be invited to speak at a lot of different places, just write a Unix operating system."#"I see myself as a technical person who chose a great project and a great way of doing that project."#"Shareware tends to combine the worst of commercial software with the worst of free software."#"I'm sitting in my home office wearing a bathrobe. The same way I'm not going to start wearing ties, I'm also not going to buy into the fake politeness, the lying, the office politics and backstabbing, the passive aggressiveness, and the buzzwords."#"I'd like to point out that I don't think that there is anything fundamentally superior in the GPL as compared to the BSD license, for example. But the GPL is what I want to program with, because unlike the BSD license it guarantees that anybody who works on the project in the future will also contribute their changes back to the community."#"Hey, I'm a good software engineer, but I'm not exactly known for my fashion sense. White socks and sandals don't translate to 'good design sense'."#"When I do programming in my free time and for my own enjoyment, I really want to have a kind of protection: knowing that when I improve a program those improvements will continue to be available to me and others in future versions of the program."#"I very seldom worry about other systems. I concentrate pretty fully on just making Linux the best I can."#"Software is like sex. It's only good when it's for free."#"I can't say that I like MicroSoft: I think they make rather bad operating systems - Windows NT is just more of the same - but while I dislike their operating systems and abhor their tactics in the marketplace I at the same time don't really care all that much about them."#"I think the term "intellectual property" should be avoided, not because it's a bad term, but because it mixes things up that shouldn't be mixed up. There are different forms, and they hardly have anything to do with each other."#"I often compare open source to science. To where science took this whole notion of developing ideas in the open and improving on other peoples' ideas and making it into what science is today and the incredible advances that we have had. And I compare that to witchcraft and alchemy, where openness was something you didn't do."#"Often your 'fixes' are actually removing capabilities that you had, because they were 'too confusing to the user'. GNOME seems to be developed by interface Nazis, where consistently the excuse for not doing something is not 'it's too complicated to do', but 'it would confuse users'."#"The Linux kernel is under the GPL version 2. Not anything else. Some individual files are licensable under v3, but not the kernel in general. And quite frankly, I don't see that changing. I think it's insane to require people to make their private signing keys available, for example. I wouldn't do it. So I don't think the GPL v3 conversion is going to happen for the kernel, since I personally don't want to convert any of my code. You think v2 or later is the default. It's not. The _default_ is to not allow conversion. Conversion isn't going to happen."#"Only wimps use tape backup. Real men just upload their important stuff on ftp and let the rest of the world mirror it."#"A consumer doesn't take anything away: he doesn't actually consume anything. Giving the same thing to a thousand consumers is not really any more expensive than giving it to just one."#"I'm interested in Linux because of the technology, and Linux wasn't started as any kind of rebellion against the 'evil Microsoft empire.'"#"I think, fundamentally, open source does tend to be more stable software. It's the right way to do things."#"Generally, the best way to learn git is probably to first only do very basic things and not even look at some of the things you can do until you are familiar and confident about the basics."#"The idea of abstracting away the one thing that must be blindingly fast, the kernel, is inherently counter productive."#"I don't have any authority over Linux other than this notion that I know what I'm doing."#"There were open source projects and free software before Linux was there. Linux in many ways is one of the more visible and one of the bigger technical projects in this area, and it changed how people looked at it because Linux took both the practical and ideological approach."#"There are "extremists" in the free software world, but that's one major reason why I don't call what I do "free software" any more. I don't want to be associated with the people for whom it's about exclusion and hatred."#"I was never a "big thinker". One of my philosophies in Linux has always been to not worry about the future too much, but make sure that we make the best of what we have now - together with keeping our options open for the future and not digging us into a hole."#"The thing with Linux is that the developers themselves are actually customers too: that has always been an important part of Linux."#"There's innovation in Linux. There are some really good technical features that I'm proud of. There are capabilities in Linux that aren't in other operating systems."#"You won't get sued for anticompetitive behavior."#"Once you start thinking more about where you want to be than about making the best product, you're screwed."#"If it is relevant there is always somebody else out there."#"So I would not be surprised if the globbing libraries, for example, will do NFD-mangling in order to glob "correctly", so even programs ported from real Unix might end up getting pathnames subtly changed into NFD as part of some hot library-on-library action with UTF hackery inside."#"While I may not get any money from Linux, I get a huge personal satisfaction from having written something that people really enjoy using, and that people find to be the best alternative for their needs."#"OK, I admit it. I was just a front-man for the real fathers of Linux, the Tooth Fairy and Santa Claus."#"I don't actually go to that many conferences. I do that a couple of times a year. Normally, I am not recognized; people don't throw their panties at me. I'm a perfectly normal person sitting in my den just doing my job."#"One of the questions I've always hated answering is how do people make money in open source. And I think that Caldera and Red Hat - and there are a number of other Linux companies going public - basically show that yes, you can actually make money in the open-source area."#"Part of doing Linux was that I had to communicate a lot more instead of just being a geek in front of a computer."#"I started Linux because I wanted to see it on the desktop... I do hope that the desktop people would try to work together ... and work more on the technology than trying to make the login screen look really nice."#"The correct form factor for a laptop is obviously 12" and 2 lbs, and I don't understand why everybody gets that wrong."#"Eventually the revolutionaries become the established culture, and then what will they do"#"I try to avoid long-range plans and visions - that way I can more easily deal with anything new that comes up without having pre-conceptions of how I should deal with it. My only long-range plan has been and still is just the very general plan of making Linux better."#"I made very sure that I did not get involved with any of the commercial Linux companies, exactly so that I would be neutral and not ever seen as "working for the competition"."#"I'm not worried about the kernel itself or the basic system. All the commercialization is about the distributions and the applications. As such, it only brings value-added things to Linux, and it doesn't take anything away from the Linux scene."#"There's a few historical reasons for why git was considered complicated. One of them is that it was complicated. The people who started using git very early on in order to work on the kernel really had to learn a very rough set of scripts to make everything work. All the effort had been on making the core technology work and very little on making it easy or obvious."#"I don't try to be a threat to MicroSoft, mainly because I don't really see MS as competition. Especially not Windows-the goals of Linux and Windows are simply so different."#"I don't expect to go hungry if I decide to leave the University. Resume: Linux looks pretty good in many places."#"It just makes it even harder for people to even approach the (open source) side, when they then end up having to worry about public humiliation."#"Software patents, in particular, are very ripe for abuse. The whole system encourages big corporations getting thousands and thousands of patents. Individuals almost never get them."#"What commercialism has brought to Linux has been the incentive to make a good distribution that is easy to use and that has all the packaging issues worked out."#"I actually think that I'm a rather optimistic and happy person; it's just that I'm not a very positive person, if you see the difference."#"I am very happy about Android obviously. I use Android, and it's actually made cellphones very usable."#"While we ended up having several core maintainers use BitKeeper - it was free to use for open source projects - it never got ubiquitous. So it helped kernel development, but there were still pain points."#"You can do a lot of things with git, and many of the rules of what you *should* do are not so much technical limitations but are about what works well when working together with other people. So git is a very powerful set of tools."#"Finnish companies tend to be very traditional, not taking many risks. Silicon Valley is completely different: people here really live on the edge."#"A lot of people still like Solaris, but I'm in active competition with them, and so I hope they die."#"Turtles are very stable and have been around forever. But they have problems adapting. When humans came along, turtles came under serious threat. Biodiversity is good, and I think it is good in technology as well."#"Working in lock-step simply isn't a good idea. Never has been, never will be."#"Fairly cheap home computing was what changed my life."#"The cyberspace 'earnings' I get from Linux come in the format of having a Network of people that know me and trust me, and that I can depend on in return."#"I think people can generally trust me, but they can trust me exactly because they know they don't have to."#"So I decided that if the architecture is fundamentally sane enough, say it follows some basic rules like it supported paging , then I would be able to say, yes, Linux fundamentally supports that model."#"People enjoy the interaction on the Internet, and the feeling of belonging to a group that does something interesting: that's how some software projects are born."#"One of the reasons that I really don't mind that people are selling Linux commercially is exactly because it does make me feel good that people use the product."#"I seldom get self-righteous, and even when I am being impolite (almost always on purpose - there's an art to insulting people, too), I tend to try to not be too serious about it. And most of the time it means that I can take criticism constructively, and sometimes just change my opinion on the fly and laugh at myself over having turned on a dime."#"What I find most interesting is how people really have taken Linux and used it in ways and attributes and motivations that I never felt."#"I spend a lot more time than any person should have to talking with lawyers and thinking about intellectual property issues."#"Helsinki isn't all that bad. It's a very nice city, and it's cold really only in wintertime."#"Making Linux GPL'd was definitely the best thing I ever did."#"I really never wanted to do source control management at all and felt that it was just about the least interesting thing in the computing world ."#"I've felt strongly that the advantage of Linux is that it doesn't have a niche or any special market, but that different individuals and companies end up pushing it in the direction they want, and as such you end up with something that is pretty balanced across the board."#"If you have ever done any security work - and it did not involve the concept of "network of trust" - it wasn't security work, it was - masturbation. I don't know what you were doing. But trust me, it's the only way you can do security, it's the only way you can do development."#"When it comes to software, I much prefer free software, because I have very seldom seen a program that has worked well enough for my needs, and having sources available can be a life-saver."#"I think of myself as an engineer, not as a visionary or 'big thinker.' I don't have any lofty goals."#"I don't think commercialization is the answer to anything. It's just one more facet of Linux, and not the deciding one by any means."#"There are literally several levels of SCO being wrong. And even if we were to live in that alternate universe where SCO would be right, they'd still be wrong."#"I've been very happy with the commercial Linux CD-ROM vendors linux Red Hat."#"Before the commercial ventures, Linux tended to be rather hard to set up, because most of the developers were motivated mainly by their own interests."#"The big thing about distributed source control is that it makes one of the main issues with SCM's go away - the politics around "who can make changes." BitKeeper showed that you can avoid that by just giving everybody their own source repository."#"Bill Gates really seems to be much more of a business man than a technologist, while I prefer to think of Linux in technical terms rather than as a means to money. As such, I'm not very likely to make the same kind of money that Bill made."#"The thing I love about diving is the flowing feeling. I like a sport where the whole point is to move as little as humanly possible so your air supply will last longer. That's my kind of sport. Where the amount of effort spent is absolutely minimal."#"I actually don't believe that everybody should necessarily try to learn to code. I think it's reasonably specialized, and nobody really expects most people to have to do it. It's not like knowing how to read and write and do basic math."#"The bulk of all patents are crap. Spending time reading them is stupid. It's up to the patent owner to do so, and to enforce them."#"I've tried it a couple of times over the years, mainly because the thing Ubuntu did so well was make Debian usable. I always felt that Debian was a pointless exercise because to me, the point of a distribution is to make everything easy. Easy to install, to be pretty and to be friendly and Ubuntu did that to Debian."#"I'm a big non-believer in manual driver and kernel configuration, be it visual or not."#"In many ways, I am very happy about the whole Linux commercial market because the commercial market is doing all these things that I have absolutely zero interest in doing myself."#"I think that freely available software can not only keep up with the evolution of commercial software, but often exceed what you can do commercially."#"Github is an excellent hosting service; I have nothing against it at all."#"It was such a relief to program in user mode for a change. Not having to care about the small stuff is wonderful."#"If you want an application to be portable, you don't necessarily create an abstraction layer like a microkernel so much as you program intelligently."#"Linux has definitely made a lot of sense even in a purely materialistic sense."#"I've never regretted not making Linux shareware: I really don't like the "pay for use" binary shareware programs."#"I've been employed by the University of Helsinki, and they've been perfectly happy to keep me employed and doing Linux."#"The fame and reputation part came later, and never was much of a motivator, although it did enable me to work without feeling guilty about neglecting my studies."#"I don't think I'm unusual in preferring my laptop to be thin and light."#"And 1.1.81 is officially BugFree(tm), so if you receive any bug-reports on it, you know they are just evil lies."#"Helsinki may not be as cold as you make it out to be, but California is still a lot nicer. I don't remember the last time I couldn't walk around in shorts all day."#"I've actually found the image of Silicon Valley as a hotbed of money-grubbing tech people to be pretty false, but maybe that's because the people I hang out with are all really engineers."#"A lot of people want to have market share numbers, lots of users, because that's how they view their self worth. For me, one of the most important things for Linux is having a big community that is actively testing new kernels; it's the only way to support the absolute insane amount of different hardware we deal with."#"Every once in a while an issue comes up where I have to make a statement. I can't totally avoid all political issues, but I try my best to minimize them. When I do make a statement, I try to be fairly neutral."#"I never felt that the naming issue was all that important, but I was obviously wrong, judging by how many people felt. I tell people to call it just plain Linux and nothing more."#"No-one has ever called me a cool dude. I'm somewhere between geek and normal."#"In personal conversations with technical people, I call myself a hacker. But when I'm talking to journalists I just say "programmer" or something like that."#"I like to think that I've been a good manager. That fact has been very instrumental in making Linux a successful product."#"I claim that Mach people (and apparently FreeBSD) are incompetent idiots."#"I'm a technical manager, but I don't have to take care of people. I only have to worry about technology itself."#"I don't doubt at all that virtualization is useful in some areas. What I doubt rather strongly is that it will ever have the kind of impact that the people involved in virtualization want it to have."#"Quite frankly, even if the choice of C were to do *nothing* but keep the C++ programmers out, that in itself would be a huge reason to use C."#"It's a personality trait: from the very beginning, I knew what I was concentrating on. I'm only doing the kernel - I always found everything around it to be completely boring."#"With software, you really can replicate and do a lot of very real and active development in parallel, and actually try it out and see what works."#"Me trying to make a business around Linux would have been a total disaster."#"I'd argue that everybody wants to do something that matters, and the fact that Linux has had a huge impact on the tech market and is used virtually everywhere is obviously very personally satisfying. I think programming is fun, and the community around the kernel is great, but a project has to be relevant too."#"I've been employed by the University of Helsinki, and that has been paying my bills. Obviously a ''real job'' pays better than most universities will pay, but I've been very happy with this arrangement I get to do whatever I want, and I have no commercial pressures whatsoever doing this."#"Being open source meant that I could work on the technical side (along with lots of other people), and others who had the interest and inclination could start up companies around it."#"I don't go to conferences quite as much as I used to: having a child and movin away from the university leaves me with less time, but I've tried to balance things out - not just spending time with Linux all the time, but having a real job and a real life at the same time."#"Linux has more than satisfied any small initial expectations I had. It's simply incredible how successful Linux has been, and how good a time I've had developing it and leading the project. It does take a lot of my time, but it's time I really enjoy spending, and Linux has continued to be challenging both technically and from a managing standpoint."#"I can mostly laugh at myself and this whole mess called "Linux developers," which means that I get along with most people and most people get along with me."#"I obviously think that freely available software can not only keep up with the evolution of commercial software, but often exceed what you can do commercially."#"Other people have other goals, and sometimes the BSD style licenses are better for those goals. I personally tend to prefer the GPL, but that really doesn't mean that the GPL is any way inherently superior - it depends on what you want the license to do."#"On a purely technical side, I'm really very happy with how Linux gets used in a very wide set of different areas. It's important for development."#"I changed the Linux copyright license to be the GPL some time in the first half of 1992. Mostly because I had hated the lack of a cheaply and easily available UNIX when I had looked for one a year before."